REDIS - REMOTE DIRECTORY SERVER

What is REDIS ? 
-> Redis is data structure store that can be used as a database, cache and message broker.
-> Redis supports various data structure such 
    String 
    Hashes
    Lists
    sets
    sorted sets
    bitmaps
    hyperloglogs
    geospetical indexes.


Redis (Remote Dictionary Server) is an in-memory data structure store that can be used as a database, cache, and message broker. Here are its key features:

1. Data Structure Support
Redis supports a variety of data structures, including:
Strings: Simple key-value pairs.
Lists: Collections of strings sorted by insertion order.
Sets: Unordered collections of unique strings.
Sorted Sets: Sets with a score associated with each element, enabling range queries.
Hashes: Key-value pairs within a single key, useful for representing objects.
Bitmaps and HyperLogLogs: For approximate data structures and bit-level operations.
Streams: For managing log data or event streams.
2. In-Memory Storage
Redis operates primarily in memory, providing extremely low latency and high-speed data access.
3. Persistence
Supports RDB (Redis Database Backup) snapshots and AOF (Append-Only File) logs for data persistence.
4. High Availability
Provides replication with master-slave architecture.
Enables high availability through Redis Sentinel, monitoring and automatic failover.
5. Scalability
Redis Cluster allows horizontal scaling by distributing data across multiple nodes.
6. Pub/Sub Messaging
Supports publish/subscribe messaging for real-time communication between applications.
7. Scripting
Redis supports Lua scripting for atomic execution of complex operations.
8. Transactions
Provides atomic transactions with MULTI, EXEC, and DISCARD commands.
9. TTL (Time to Live)
Keys can have an expiration time, making it a powerful tool for caching.
10. Modules
Supports extensions via modules like RedisGraph, RedisJSON, and RedisBloom, adding more capabilities.
11. Lightweight and Fast
Built-in optimizations ensure high performance, handling millions of requests per second.
12. Geospatial Support
Allows storage, querying, and manipulation of geospatial data.
13. Security
Offers authentication, ACLs (Access Control Lists), and encryption for secure usage.
14. Compatibility
Works with multiple programming languages through client libraries.
Redis is widely used in scenarios like caching, real-time analytics, chat applications, and leaderboards due to its versatility and speed.
------------------------

commands: 

sudo systemctl status redis
redis-cli
sudo systemctl start redis  to start the service
sudo systemctl stop redis  to stop the service
which redis-server  path
sudo apt install redis-server -y
sudo apt udate
dpkg -l | grep redis  The command is used to check if Redis is installed on your Ubuntu system and to list any Redis-related packages.

WHO AMI 
USERS
time

get any help using

help@<use tab>
